blockchain-secure-logging/README.md, before:

# Blockchain Secure Logging Scaffold

This scaffold provides a starting point for a tamper-evident logging pipeline that batches normalized log entries, builds Merkle trees, and anchors the resulting roots onto a private Ethereum-compatible blockchain. The repository is organized to keep the on-chain footprint minimal while storing full log data in append-only off-chain storage.

## Repository Structure

```
blockchain-secure-logging/
├── README.md
├── docker/
├── infra/
│   └── ganache-config.json
├── offchain/
│   ├── batcher.py
│   ├── config.yaml
│   ├── merkle.py
│   ├── schemas.py
│   └── storage/
│       └── local_store.py
├── onchain/
│   ├── LogAnchor.sol
│   ├── abi/
│   └── addresses/
└── tests/
    ├── sample_logs/
    └── test_tamper_evidence.md
```

## High-Level Flow

1. **Collect & Normalize Logs** – Log sources emit structured JSON that conforms to `offchain/schemas.LogEntry`.
2. **Batching** – `offchain/batcher.py` gathers new logs using the cadence defined in `offchain/config.yaml`.
3. **Leaf Hashing** – Each normalized entry is canonicalized and hashed using SHA-256 (see `offchain/merkle.py`).
4. **Merkle Tree Construction** – The batcher builds a deterministic Merkle tree and produces a Merkle root per batch.
5. **Anchoring** – The batcher either submits a raw transaction containing the batch metadata or calls the optional `LogAnchor` contract to emit an anchor event. Each on-chain record contains:
   - `batch_id`
   - `merkle_root`
   - `prev_merkle_root`
   - `metaCID` or inline metadata reference
6. **Off-chain Storage** – Raw logs, manifests, and optional signatures are written to write-once (WORM) storage using the `storage.local_store` pattern.
7. **Verification** – Auditors recompute a log entry’s hash, derive a Merkle proof, and confirm the on-chain root and monotonic `prev_merkle_root` linkage.

## Components

- **offchain/** – Python utilities for reading logs, building Merkle trees, signing batches, and interacting with the chain via Web3.py.
- **onchain/** – Minimal Solidity contract interface (`LogAnchor.sol`) plus directories for compiled ABIs and deployed addresses.
- **infra/** – Configuration for running a deterministic local chain (Ganache).
- **tests/** – Manual and automated test plans plus sample logs for exercising the flow.

## Next Steps

1. Create a Python virtual environment and install dependencies listed in `offchain/batcher.py` docstring.
2. Populate `tests/sample_logs/` with `.jsonl` fixtures and run the batcher to produce a manifest and anchor transaction.
3. Extend the batcher to include ECDSA signatures today and PQC signatures (e.g., Dilithium) in future iterations.
4. Integrate the verification workflow to detect tampering by recomputing Merkle proofs and checking on-chain anchors.

## Threat Model Snapshot

- **Goal** – Detect unauthorized edits, deletions, or reordering of historical log entries.
- **Immutability Anchor** – Private Ethereum chain guarantees transaction immutability; optional periodic checkpoints to a public chain provide extra assurance.
- **Backdating Deterrence** – Each batch references the prior Merkle root, forming a singly linked list anchored by block timestamps.
- **Key Management** – Separate keys for anchoring transactions and node administration. Rotate regularly and store in secure keystores (file-based, HSM, or TPM).
- **Node Rollback** – Pin finalized blocks, export checkpoints, and consider anchoring snapshots publicly to prevent rollback attacks.
- **Source Authenticity** – Sign logs at the edge or use authenticated transport; include `source_id` in each leaf hash.

## Development Shortcuts

- Run Ganache locally with `ganache --port 8545 --deterministic --chain.hardfork istanbul`.
- Choose anchoring pattern:
  - **Pattern A (Raw TX)** – Encode metadata into a zero-value transaction to a known account.
  - **Pattern B (LogAnchor Contract)** – Call `anchor` to emit a structured event for better indexing.

## Verification Workflow (Summary)

1. Canonicalize the target log entry and compute its SHA-256 leaf hash.
2. Load the batch manifest to retrieve sibling hashes and compute the Merkle root.
3. Fetch the on-chain anchor (tx receipt or contract event) and compare the stored root.
4. Verify chain continuity via `prev_merkle_root` pointers.
5. Optionally validate the batch signature (ECDSA today, PQC later).

## Testing Checklist

- ✅ Unit: deterministic leaf hashing and Merkle roots.
- ✅ E2E: mutate raw log and ensure verification fails.
- ✅ Adversarial: detect deletions/insertions via Merkle proof mismatch.
- ✅ Rollback: ensure conflicting `batch_id` anchors are rejected or detected.

Commit message:

Add Orchestrate stub for anchor and verify demo

blockchain-secure-logging/README.md, after:

# Blockchain Secure Logging Scaffold

This scaffold provides a starting point for a tamper-evident logging pipeline that batches normalized log entries, builds Merkle trees, and anchors the resulting roots onto a private Ethereum-compatible blockchain. The repository is organized to keep the on-chain footprint minimal while storing full log data in append-only off-chain storage.

## Repository Structure

```
blockchain-secure-logging/
├── README.md
├── docker/
├── infra/
│   └── ganache-config.json
├── offchain/
│   ├── batcher.py
│   ├── config.yaml
│   ├── merkle.py
│   ├── schemas.py
│   └── storage/
│       └── local_store.py
├── onchain/
│   ├── LogAnchor.sol
│   ├── abi/
│   └── addresses/
└── tests/
    ├── sample_logs/
    └── test_tamper_evidence.md
```

## High-Level Flow

1. **Collect & Normalize Logs** – Log sources emit structured JSON that conforms to `offchain/schemas.LogEntry`.
2. **Batching** – `offchain/batcher.py` gathers new logs using the cadence defined in `offchain/config.yaml`.
3. **Leaf Hashing** – Each normalized entry is canonicalized and hashed using SHA-256 (see `offchain/merkle.py`).
4. **Merkle Tree Construction** – The batcher builds a deterministic Merkle tree and produces a Merkle root per batch.
5. **Anchoring** – The batcher either submits a raw transaction containing the batch metadata or calls the optional `LogAnchor` contract to emit an anchor event. Each on-chain record contains:
   - `batch_id`
   - `merkle_root`
   - `prev_merkle_root`
   - `metaCID` or inline metadata reference
6. **Off-chain Storage** – Raw logs, manifests, and optional signatures are written to write-once (WORM) storage using the `storage.local_store` pattern.
7. **Verification** – Auditors recompute a log entry’s hash, derive a Merkle proof, and confirm the on-chain root and monotonic `prev_merkle_root` linkage.

## Components

- **offchain/** – Python utilities for reading logs, building Merkle trees, signing batches, and interacting with the chain via Web3.py.
- **onchain/** – Minimal Solidity contract interface (`LogAnchor.sol`) plus directories for compiled ABIs and deployed addresses.
- **infra/** – Configuration for running a deterministic local chain (Ganache).
- **tests/** – Manual and automated test plans plus sample logs for exercising the flow.

## Next Steps

1. Create a Python virtual environment and install dependencies listed in `offchain/batcher.py` docstring.
2. Populate `tests/sample_logs/` with `.jsonl` fixtures and run the batcher to produce a manifest and anchor transaction.
3. Extend the batcher to include ECDSA signatures today and PQC signatures (e.g., Dilithium) in future iterations.
4. Integrate the verification workflow to detect tampering by recomputing Merkle proofs and checking on-chain anchors.

## Orchestrate Automation Stub

The helper script at `offchain/orchestrate_stub.py` provides a lightweight integration point for Orchestrate or other
automation tooling. It loads credentials/configuration, POSTs a demo batch to `/anchor_batch`, and immediately invokes
`/verify` for the same `batch_id`, logging request/response bodies alongside simple assertions so the flow can double as an
automated smoke test.

### Configuration & Environment Variables

The stub pulls its settings from environment variables and, optionally, an overridable YAML file referenced by
`ORCHESTRATE_STUB_CONFIG_PATH`. At minimum you should define:

- `ORCHESTRATE_API_BASE_URL` – Base URL (e.g., `http://127.0.0.1:8000`) hosting the `anchor_batch` and `verify` endpoints.
- `GANACHE_RPC_URL` – RPC endpoint used by the verification metadata (defaults to `http://127.0.0.1:8545`).
- `ORCHESTRATE_BATCH_ID` – Demo batch identifier used for both anchoring and verification.

Optional overrides include:

- `ORCHESTRATE_API_TOKEN` – Bearer token for authenticated APIs.
- `ORCHESTRATE_MERKLE_ROOT` / `ORCHESTRATE_PREV_MERKLE_ROOT` / `ORCHESTRATE_NETWORK` – Override demo payload values.
- `ORCHESTRATE_STUB_CONFIG_PATH` – Path to a YAML file that can define `api_base_url`, `anchor_payload`, `verify_params`, and
  `ganache_rpc_url` defaults consumed by the stub.

## Threat Model Snapshot

- **Goal** – Detect unauthorized edits, deletions, or reordering of historical log entries.
- **Immutability Anchor** – Private Ethereum chain guarantees transaction immutability; optional periodic checkpoints to a public chain provide extra assurance.
- **Backdating Deterrence** – Each batch references the prior Merkle root, forming a singly linked list anchored by block timestamps.
- **Key Management** – Separate keys for anchoring transactions and node administration. Rotate regularly and store in secure keystores (file-based, HSM, or TPM).
- **Node Rollback** – Pin finalized blocks, export checkpoints, and consider anchoring snapshots publicly to prevent rollback attacks.
- **Source Authenticity** – Sign logs at the edge or use authenticated transport; include `source_id` in each leaf hash.

## Development Shortcuts

- Run Ganache locally with `ganache --port 8545 --deterministic --chain.hardfork istanbul`.
- Choose anchoring pattern:
  - **Pattern A (Raw TX)** – Encode metadata into a zero-value transaction to a known account.
  - **Pattern B (LogAnchor Contract)** – Call `anchor` to emit a structured event for better indexing.

## Verification Workflow (Summary)

1. Canonicalize the target log entry and compute its SHA-256 leaf hash.
2. Load the batch manifest to retrieve sibling hashes and compute the Merkle root.
3. Fetch the on-chain anchor (tx receipt or contract event) and compare the stored root.
4. Verify chain continuity via `prev_merkle_root` pointers.
5. Optionally validate the batch signature (ECDSA today, PQC later).

## Testing Checklist

- ✅ Unit: deterministic leaf hashing and Merkle roots.
- ✅ E2E: mutate raw log and ensure verification fails.
- ✅ Adversarial: detect deletions/insertions via Merkle proof mismatch.
- ✅ Rollback: ensure conflicting `batch_id` anchors are rejected or detected.
