mobile-security-analysis/README.md, before:

# Mobile Security Analysis Tool

This project targets Android applications to uncover static and dynamic security flaws, supporting secure development practices for small teams and independent testers.

## Scope
Analyze APKs for misconfigurations, insecure data handling, and runtime vulnerabilities.

## Tools
- [JADX](https://github.com/skylot/jadx)
- APKTool
- Frida
- Python

## Implementation
1. Decompile applications.
2. Write automated analysis scripts.
3. Perform live testing on emulators or devices.

## Usage
Run the Python helper script to decompile an APK with apktool and JADX:

```bash
python analyze_apk.py path/to/app.apk --out output_dir
```

Ensure `apktool` and `jadx` are installed and on your `PATH`.

## Challenges
- Obfuscation
- Anti-debugging techniques
- Code scalability

## Next Steps
- Automate and chain analysis tasks.
- Expand support to iOS.

## Legal Notice
Use this tool only on applications you have explicit permission to analyze. Unauthorized testing is illegal and unethical.

Commit message:

Add iOS pipeline to mobile security analyzer

mobile-security-analysis/README.md, after:

# Mobile Security Analysis Tool

This project targets mobile applications to uncover static security flaws and
streamline repeatable analysis workflows for small teams and independent
security testers.

## Scope
Analyze Android APKs and iOS IPAs for misconfigurations, insecure data handling,
and transport security issues.

## Tools
- [JADX](https://github.com/skylot/jadx)
- APKTool
- Python 3 (built-in IPA extraction and Info.plist parsing)

## Implementation
1. Decompile Android applications with apktool and JADX.
2. Extract iOS payloads, summarize `Info.plist` metadata, enumerate URL schemes,
   and review App Transport Security (ATS) policies.
3. Use the Python helper script to chain platform-specific analysis tasks and
   collect artifacts in one workspace.

## Usage
Run the Python helper script to analyze an APK or IPA:

```bash
python analyze_apk.py path/to/app.apk --out output_dir
python analyze_apk.py path/to/app.ipa --platform ios --out output_dir
```

The platform is auto-detected from the file extension. Use `--platform` to
override the detection when needed. Ensure `apktool` and `jadx` are installed
and on your `PATH` for Android targets.

## Challenges
- Obfuscation
- Anti-debugging techniques
- Cross-platform code scalability

## Next Steps
- Integrate dynamic instrumentation helpers (Frida, LLDB).
- Expand reporting to include findings taxonomy and severity tags.

## Legal Notice
Use this tool only on applications you have explicit permission to analyze.
Unauthorized testing is illegal and unethical.
